>> Anjana Vakil: Moving on, let's talk
about the writing side of things, and
I'm curious to see whether we still
feel the same preferences once we're
done with this.
Now, we already burned our cliche
functional programming function factorial,
but we still have one more cliche function
left to use, the Fibonacci sequence.
Have folks encountered
the Fibonacci sequence before?
It has to do with the golden ratio and
shows up in nature and spirals and
all kinds of stuff.
You can deep dive on Wikipedia about it.
But essentially, it's a sequence
of numbers that is Infinite,
that starts with 0 and 1.
And then each following number is
the sum of the previous two numbers,
so 0 plus 1 equals1, 1 plus 1 equals 2,
1 plus 2 equals 3 2 plus 3 equals 5,
etc., etc.
Cool, so this is a sequence that, like I
said, it's often useful for things like,
aesthetic purposes, and you can read all
about it in the Wikipedia article, but for
right now, I'm just gonna say do it.
So [LAUGH] We need to compute
this Fibonacci sequence.
Basically, we're gonna compute nth
number of the Fibonacci sequence.
So these functions, the imperative version
and the recursive version, are both
gonna take in a number, an integer n,
that is like a positive integer, and
it's gonna give us the nth number
in the Fibonacci sequence.
Which means it's gonna be the sum
of the previous two numbers.
And that, those numbers are going to each
be the sum of their previous two numbers,
and so on and so forth.
So your task is to write two versions of
this, one in imperative style with loops,
and one in recursive style with
a call to recursive Fibonacci, or
perhaps more than one call to recursive.
To Fibonacci, I don't know, [LAUGH] And
get the correct output from the test
cases that I've given you here, godspeed.
>> Anjana Vakil: Okay, so how do we
feel about these implementations?
And the writing side of things
versus the reading side of things,
let's review and you're going to
help me code up the solution here.
So, okay, in our imperative Fibonacci,
we are in our familiar world
of writing commands and
telling the program what to do.
And we're gonna try to use
an iterative loop like we would for
a lot of repetitive things in JavaScript.
So there are a couple of situations
in which I don't even need to loop
over anything or
like do any kind of complex computation.
And those are the first two numbers,
right?
They're fixed, they're just defined,
the first two numbers of the Fibonacci
sequence are 0 and 1 period.
So those are some cases that
might be pretty easy to handle.
For example, if I have an N that is 0,
like if this person is asking me for
the zeroth or
the first thing in the Fibonacci sequence,
well, I already know what that is,
I can just return 0.
And likewise, if I have n equals 1,
then I already know what
the element at index
1 of the Fibonacci sequence should be,
it is run boom.
So that solves two of the problems, but
we still have a whole rest of
the natural numbers to deal with here.
So let's think about how we
are gonna do this iteratively, okay?
Cool, we're gonna need
some way to remember
kind of where we are in the sequence and
what values we already know about.
If that makes sense, so
let's define a couple of variables.
We can do, and I'm using a let here
because we're gonna mess
with them previous,
the previous thing like would
be conceptually the if n.
So now I'm if I'm reaching this line of
code 6 here, I already know n is not 0 or
1, and we're assuming n is never
gonna be negative or non-injure or
whatever like that.
So, if I get to line 6,
I know I'm dealing with two or higher.
And so that means, in order to compute
the Fibonacci number at that index,
I need to look at the two
previous numbers in the sequence.
I need to remember those,
so I'll have a previous 1.
And in this case, let's imagine that
that's our like, n minus 2, and
then I'm gonna call the other
thing we want to remember.
I'm going to call it current,
just say, like, where are we at?
What have we already computed so
far in the sequence?
And in this case, if we have an n of
larger than 2, we already know 0, we
already know run, and 1 is kind of as far
as we've gotten, so I'll call it current.
But if you can think of better names for
these variables, please use them.
Now what we want to do is start looping
and,
>> Anjana Vakil: You might I have used
a old school style for a loop, or
a new school for of loop here.
I'm gonna use an old school style,
just because it's very explicit about
how imperative the iteration is.
So let's start with a 4.
And I'm gonna say we're gonna
need another way of representing
like where we are at in the computation.
I'll call it i and
when we start out it'll be n and
n will be like the next item in
the sequence that we need to compute.
And we already have computed the item
that we're currently kind of up to,
and then the previous item.
So we're gonna start i at n, there's,
we could do this in either direction,
basically.
I might do it.
>> BLANK_AUDIO].
>> Anjana Vakil: We are making sure
that i is always like bigger than one,
because we've already
handled the one case.
And then at each step,
we're actually starting from n, so
the number that we want and
we're moving down towards 1.
So we're doing a decrement or
dec sorry not n i minus minus
a decrement decrement I never know
how to pronounce the e in that.
But we are going to be moving from n
the higher number all the way down
through the sequence of
the many numbers until 1.
And you could do this in the opposite
direction, not a huge difference.
But so what we're gonna do is
we are going to add together
the number of the sequence that we
are up to and the previous number.
Because that's what
the sequence is defined by.
So I'm gonna have previous plus
current happening in here, and
I'm just going to capture
that in like a new value.
I'll call it the next value layer,
we're already up to the current value,
and now we wanna get the next one
that's gonna be previous plus current.
And then we wanna swap out these values so
that I keep moving through the sequence.
And so instead of, I am using 0 and
1, always as those values,
I'm gonna keep updating it on every for
loop.
So what I can do now is make
sure that the the current
current becomes the new previous.
So previous equals current and
the new current is gonna
be the value I just calculated,
which is what I called next.
So we're sort of updating
these tracker variables,
the preview and
current as we go through the sequence.
And once we've gone through
all of the numbers between 1,
which we already know the result of,
and n,
kind of summing them up two at a time.
The final thing that
we're left with should
be the last current value, if you will.
The last time that we do an add and
then reassign it to current.
That's gonna be the value that we want.
So we will just return current from here.
Let's look at the recursive implementation
of the Fibonacci calculator.
So here.
>> Anjana Vakil: Well, we still know what
the first two numbers of the Fibonacci
sequence are right?
And because it is a recursive function,
we definitely need a base case,
at least one wink.
And so in this case, honestly,
our code is gonna look identical to
the first couple of lines
of our imperative version,
which essentially is going
to represent our base cases.
So our base cases, we have two of them.
Now, if we get 0, we know it's 0, if we
get 1, we know it's 1, and then what?
Okay, well,
when we talk about in human terms,
what is the Fibonacci sequence like,
how do we think about it?
How do we define it?
As we saw,
we said the next number in the sequence is
the sum of the previous two numbers,
right?
So if we want to know
the recursive Fibonacci of n,
we can recursively compute the previous
two numbers in the sequence and
then add them together
to get the nth number.
And we know that if we get this far,
if we get to line 19 here, or yeah,
that we we don't have 0, we don't have 1,
so we're at least two here.
And so what I can do is call our cursive
Fibonacci on the previous two numbers,
which means I'm gonna call
it on the previous number,
n minus 1, and also on whoops.
And also on the one before that,
which is gonna be n-2,
and add those together.
>> Anjana Vakil: And return the value.
And my goodness I see green in the tests,
we did it.